README.md, before:

# Wordup - Mobile Game App

A React Native mobile game application focused on vocabulary enhancement through various word games. Currently featuring Hangman with multiple game modes, additional games modes will be added in time.

# Motivation

I want to make a simple but addictive game that inspires curiosity while also offering value to the players. Learning while having fun is the best way to learn!

## Features

### Hangman Game

- Multiple Game Modes:
  - Quick Mode: 10 rounds with 6 lives
  - Marathon Mode: Unlimited rounds with 6 lives
  - Casual Mode: Unlimited rounds with unlimited lives
- Score tracking system
- Visual feedback for correct/incorrect guesses
- On-screen keyboard with guessed letters tracking
- definitions of words on either level complete or game over

## To do list

## General

- [] app colour scheme
- [] New app name
- [] Documentation improvement to code
- [] additional game modes frameworks
  - [] Synonyms/antonyms game
  - [] Spill and spell (try to spell the words as fast as you can from assortment of letters)
  - [] guess the definition
  - [] fridge screen (make a sentence from assortment of words)
- [] high scores and score tracking
- [] navigation tab options
- [] profile system
- [] revamped CSS styling

#### Hangman-To Do

- [] fixing word placement
- [] modify quick and marathon mode rules
- [] add phonetics and audio to word summary screen
- [] add sound effects for letter selection, level completion, etc
- [] add animations
- [] add score tracker and high score feature
- [] build backup offline word database for offline play
- [] modify word generator to sanitize words (inappropriate words, words without definitions, lowering font size for larger words so it fits on the screen)
- [] add #letters QOL
- [] Add point system with shop for upgrades(extra lives, letter erasers, free letter)

## Technologies Used

- React Native with Expo
- TypeScript
- React Native Paper for UI components
- Expo Router for navigation

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone [repository-url]
cd vocabulary-game
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Start the development server:

```bash
npx expo start
```

## Running the App

To run the app on your device:

1. Install the Expo Go app from the App Store (iOS) or Play Store (Android)
2. Scan the QR code shown in the terminal after running `npx expo start`

For development using emulators:

- iOS: Press 'i' in the terminal after starting the development server
- Android: Press 'a' in the terminal after starting the development server

## Game Modes

### Quick Mode

- Perfect for short gameplay sessions
- Limited to 10 rounds
- 6 lives per game
- Score tracking enabled

### Marathon Mode

- Extended gameplay experience
- Unlimited rounds
- 6 lives per game
- Score tracking enabled
- Game ends when all lives are lost

### Casual Mode

- Relaxed gameplay experience
- Unlimited rounds
- Unlimited lives
- No score tracking
- Can be ended at any time using the "End Game" button

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- npm or yarn
- Expo CLI
- iOS Simulator (for iOS development)
- Android Studio & Android SDK (for Android development)

### Available Scripts

- `npx expo start` - Starts the development server
- `npm run ios` - Runs the app in iOS simulator
- `npm run android` - Runs the app in Android emulator
- `npm run web` - Runs the app in web browser

## Future Enhancements

- Additional vocabulary games
- Word categories and difficulty levels
- Multiplayer support
- High score leaderboard
- Sound effects and animations
- User profiles and progress tracking

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

dynamic word size temp fix
-dynamically checks word size after each guess. words with words up to 8 letters. words longer still wrap. will continue working on fixing this

README.md, after:

# Wordup - Mobile Game App

A React Native mobile game application focused on vocabulary enhancement through various word games. Currently featuring Hangman with multiple game modes, additional games modes will be added in time.

# Motivation

I want to make a simple but addictive game that inspires curiosity while also offering value to the players. Learning while having fun is the best way to learn!

## Features

### Hangman Game

- Multiple Game Modes:
  - Quick Mode: 10 rounds with 6 lives
  - Marathon Mode: Unlimited rounds with 6 lives
  - Casual Mode: Unlimited rounds with unlimited lives
- Score tracking system
- Visual feedback for correct/incorrect guesses
- On-screen keyboard with guessed letters tracking
- definitions of words on either level complete or game over

## To do list

## General

- [] app colour scheme
- [] New app name
- [] Documentation improvement to code
- [] additional game modes frameworks
  - [] Synonyms/antonyms game
  - [] Spill and spell (try to spell as many words as fast as you can from assortment of letters)
  - [] guess the definition
  - [] fridge screen (make a sentence from assortment of words)
- [] high scores and score tracking
- [] navigation tab options
- [] profile system
- [] revamped CSS styling

#### Hangman-To Do

- [] fixing word placement
  - [x] add space calculator function
  - [] add check and dynamically re-adjusts words to fit the screen as letters are guessed
- [] modify quick and marathon mode rules
- [] add phonetics and audio to word summary screen
- [] add sound effects for letter selection, level completion, etc
- [] add animations
- [] add score tracker and high score feature
- [] build backup offline word database for offline play
- [] modify word generator to sanitize words (inappropriate words, words without definitions, lowering font size for larger words so it fits on the screen)
- [] add #letters QOL
- [] Add point system with shop for upgrades(extra lives, letter erasers, free letter)

## Technologies Used

- React Native with Expo
- TypeScript
- React Native Paper for UI components
- Expo Router for navigation

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone [repository-url]
cd vocabulary-game
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Start the development server:

```bash
npx expo start
```

## Running the App

To run the app on your device:

1. Install the Expo Go app from the App Store (iOS) or Play Store (Android)
2. Scan the QR code shown in the terminal after running `npx expo start`

For development using emulators:

- iOS: Press 'i' in the terminal after starting the development server
- Android: Press 'a' in the terminal after starting the development server

## Game Modes

### Quick Mode

- Perfect for short gameplay sessions
- Limited to 10 rounds
- 6 lives per game
- Score tracking enabled

### Marathon Mode

- Extended gameplay experience
- Unlimited rounds
- 6 lives per game
- Score tracking enabled
- Game ends when all lives are lost

### Casual Mode

- Relaxed gameplay experience
- Unlimited rounds
- Unlimited lives
- No score tracking
- Can be ended at any time using the "End Game" button

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- npm or yarn
- Expo CLI
- iOS Simulator (for iOS development)
- Android Studio & Android SDK (for Android development)

### Available Scripts

- `npx expo start` - Starts the development server
- `npm run ios` - Runs the app in iOS simulator
- `npm run android` - Runs the app in Android emulator
- `npm run web` - Runs the app in web browser

## Future Enhancements

- Additional vocabulary games
- Word categories and difficulty levels
- Multiplayer support
- High score leaderboard
- Sound effects and animations
- User profiles and progress tracking

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
